
    theoretically, it would be nice to be able to organize our work voluntarily by topic area. We talk all the time about our field, subfield, sub-subfield, "auditory neurophysiology," "phonetic perception," etc. each doesn't fully encompass but you triangulate, yno? and then ideally you would orient the search/browsing pattern around that: in general, people want to evaluate the semantic relationships between things, and citations are just a proxy for that. The reason you go and open the paper in the citation is that it was given as a reference for an idea that you were interested in, skeptical of, etc. Conversely, when you look at citing papers, you are looking for the thought that spawned from it, maybe continuations of the same idea, but also be able to sort through the different semantic reflections of the same idea. in either case a very simple, voluntary, act of self-tagging that has a natural reflection in UX as a token, accordion, tree, interface model, etc. accomplishes what we use citations for but is also better for referee and referrer. In fact we already do this with keywords, but i've never heard anyone talk about them and only heard people sorta begrudgingly fill them out as an unwelcome obligation. No surprise! They're not present in any reliable paper finding pattern, so why would we value them?
    journal system relies on an interlocking set of mythologies that prop up its seeming necessity and inevitability as a reality, ya? Part of that is maintaining an aspirational prestige hierarchy that positions "publishing a nature paper" as a goal or ideal, so everyone has either a first order goal or secondary "well i do it for my students/bc i need to get grants" etc. to publish in for-profit journals in an obviously self-fulfilling prophecy that's hard to break out of bc (flippantly) "just wanna do science" and "hard to imagine science without them." Why do people keep submitting papers to papers owned by Elsevier if we all know journal system sucks, even if only abstractly? Mythologies within mythologies
    How do we find papers? what are the axes we can sort by? Date and... citation count. So the numerical "definition" of what makes a prestige journal is its impact factor, calculated from citations, and they also need to be able to offer what they are selling as the product: citations! If you were to go through all the headache and moral depravity of submitting to Nature, and then no one even cites your paper, that's a ripoff! why would you do that again? So you need to control the means of finding papers to be organized by citations so you get a 'rich get richer' preferential attachment style network growth to manufacture the product. Presumably if you own the means of search you can lean on result presentation too
    So the punchline! (speculative part) you have to limit citations to prevent inflation! if you need to grow citations in such a way that you maintain the distribution of counts across journals, then you can't have the median number of citations changing dramatically, especially over short periods of time. Tbh "just citing all my friends and people i think are good for science" is one of the easiest forms of "resisting" (in spirit) journal system/surviving in science i can think of (i think we all sorta do it to some degree b/c of like social bonds and that's normal and good?), esp. if shut out of prestige cycle. So obvs page limits are a complete sham, but they're at least plausible to limit the length of something that a reader/editor would have to read. but citation limits are a complete sham because there is no reason to limit empirical support (that's in good faith) for an argument.
    Extra punchline! So all that 'surveillance tech to sell bosses and us back knowledge organization' stuff... SciVal and the like... the only way that's a product is if there's no knowledge organization, so ....
